Had a situation.
Had Fort Momet.
That's the biggest problem that I know they had.
They did have at least two persons, a communist or extremely pro-communist whom they suspended
in the New York area.
Do you think comparable conditions existed in other army installations?
I don't know.
I've read pieces in the paper, but I don't know.
I don't know except they do it.
Your experience is official.
FBI didn't you have an opportunity to contact work with the Department of the Army?
Haven't you been aware of the activities of the Department in regard to this subversive
program?
Well, in my own personal experience with the FBI, I had very little contact with the Army
intelligence agencies, personal contact with the Army intelligence agencies.
We realize that the result of the prodding of the investigations subcommittee at Fort
Momet, the Army probably has been accelerating its work there.
Do you think that if the subcommittee were to withdraw entirely from its investigations
there and in other army installations, there would be a tendency to coddle subversives
and security risks within the Army?
I don't think at this time the Army is going to coddle any security risks.
No sir, I think there's enough attention that's been drawn to it.
I think the Army will do a fast job of trying to get rid of communists.
You can conceive of no reason why they should do otherwise, are you?
No sir.
You think therefore you will conceive that the American people have no reason to be apprehensive
about just the part of the Army for having your part on as a wife?
Actively working within the Army?
Well, I think that the American people might well be apprehensive about the questions of
espionage at all times within the Army and without it.
The communists are always vigilant.
I think the American people should be vigilant also.
Well, you also will conceive that Secretary Stevens as a patriotic of American ought to be
interested in rooting out, exposing these subversive forces wherever they may be found within
the Army?
Yes sir, and I might say in regards that with the subcommittee there was never any question
of Secretary Stevens, not being anxious to rid the Army of communists.
The only trouble came when the subcommittee wanted to find out who was responsible for
allowing the communists to be there.
You think then at lower levels there was a tendency to cover up and protect those who
had been too lenient and too tolerant in dealing with this particular problem?
I think that has been, I don't know whether it's still exists.
You don't know why I can't?
I don't know whether it's still exists now, I think that has been.
You think that has been?
Yes.
You think that in the future there will be a greater inclination to do an effective job?
Well, yes sir, I think that's true of not only Army but the Navy and all executive branches
or legislative branches.
Whenever you have an expoze of some laxity, another agency that doesn't take advantage of finding
out somebody else's faults, it's a software much at fault.
Well, it's apparent that if we are building up a national, the fairness, the defense establishment
that we must be absolutely certain that we do not have these subversive forces within
our armed services, that's very apparent, is it not?
Yes, sir.
And I think that as a result of the investigation of this subcommittee, the Department of Defense
and April revised many of its regulations concerning the communist threat.
And we can look for a decided improvement in the future, handling this program.
Oh, thanks so.
From the standpoint of the top echelons and also from the security boards.
I love, I love, of course, so yes sir.
One more question.
What do you think the Army could have done for David Cheyenne if the relations between
the Army and the subcommittee at Fort Monmouth had been more agreeable?
Could I have that question again, sir?
I'm going to be quietly thinking.
One more question.
What do you think the Army could have done for David Cheyenne if the relations between the
Army and the subcommittee at Fort Monmouth had been more agreeable?
In other words, it's been pointed out that David Cheyenne was more or less of a hostage
and that there may have been discrimination because of the lack of adequate response or vocal
operation on the part of the staff of this committee.
Now, what do you think the David Cheyenne, what treatment might he have expected if this
relationship had been more agreeable?
Well, I think that I don't complain about Cheyenne's treatment.
You don't?
Nothing.
Well, you think then that David Cheyenne was not discriminated against and that while he may not
have received any real preferential treatment because he's still in private, that you think
that he got the part what he was entitled to, the same as any other enlisting or drafty entering the Army?
Well, General Ryan has testified that he got no special privilege.
I don't have any knowledge that he got less than special privilege.
You don't think then that he should have received a commission or he should have served?
I think he should have served less than the ordinary.
He should have followed the irregular routine and qualified and if he were competent in every way,
then he should have received a commission otherwise not.
Yes, I think that the ordinary procedure is just right.
But if you did have any interest, you made any contact with the Department of the Army to urge some preferential treatment.
I say alleged preferential treatment for David Cheyenne, you feel that he was not discriminated against and that it's not just
ifiable to say that he was held as a hostage.
Well, the word hostage is Mr. Adams word.
I think that they were trying to use Dave Cheyenne as they were trying to use other things to stop the hearing.
Well, in other words, David Cheyenne has received about the same treatment that other young men entering the Army received.
Yes, sir, I think so.
That's all.
Now, Senator McKity or Mr. Cogni, have ten minutes.
I don't know any of the time that I have Mr. Cogni.
Do you have any questions? No, sorry, I don't.
Any questions?
Mr. Welk or Mr. Jim Sary, you have ten minutes.
Mr. Cawr,
It's been said that sometime previous to the start of these hearings there was a loyalty oath circulated in your office.
Is that correct?
It's been said yet.
Was there such an oath circulated?
No, sir.
I don't think so.
Did you sign anything that anyone could call a loyalty oath?
No, sir.
Did you sign any form of paper that indicated your support of Mr. Cogni?
Do you acknowledge that anyone under your supervision sign is such a paper?
No, sir.
Is your testimony then, sir, that no such paper exists?
And never did exist.
No, sir, my testimony is, there's not my testimony that no such paper exists.
It's my testimony that no one acknowledge no such paper exists.
Have you heard others talk about it?
Yes, sir.
I've seen it in the newspapers.
Have you heard Mr. Giuliana talk about it?
No, I don't think I have, although I won't say that I haven't.
I've heard a lot of talk about it.
Yes, sir.
Which such a paper being the files of this committee?
Seven committee?
No, sir.
In so far, do you personally know no such paper exists?
Is that correct?
I have never seen any such paper no sir.
And you have not seen it.
I have never been asked to sign it.
No sir.
Now Mr. Car, when you first came to this committee, it was in the middle of July.
Yes, sir.
And I take it that you must have met Mr. Shine about that time.
Is that correct?
I can't be sure of this, sir, but I don't believe that I saw Mr. Shine until sometime in August.
I think around the time that we were holding the hearings on the government printing office.
About when would that be?
From 2nd, 2nd, 3rd, maybe last week in August.
So, if you were on the job for about a month before you met him, is that correct?
What the exception of this, the handshake, the handshake, I think that's about correct.
Now I can't swear to that.
I may have seen him before.
Well, I do.
That's the best, my right-best recollection of sometime in August.
So, it was about the first or second week in August before you met him in connection with your duties as staff directors.
That's what I'm getting at.
Talked to 2nd or 3rd, yes.
About the 2nd or 3rd week?
Yes.
You know what he was doing during the period from July 16 when you first came to this committee in the 2nd or 3rd week of August, Mr. Car?
Yes, sir.
Was he working for the subcommittee, sir?
That's my understanding, yes, sir.
And I take it, he was not working under your direction.
No, sir.
I also understood you to say this morning, Mr. Car, that Mr. Shine was a part-time consultant.
Is that correct?
That's correct.
At the same time, he was acting as a part-time consultant for the subcommittee, he was also running a business, didn't you say?
That's my understanding, yes.
And that was a fairly substantial business, wasn't it?
I understand it is.
Evolving the affairs of several hotels, theaters, and...
That's fine, I understand.
And therefore, it follows those of not that not too much of his time was available for the subcommittee, is that correct?
Well, I wouldn't say that.
Well, would you say that he spent half of his time running this large business, and half of the time working for the subcommittee?
No, sir, I couldn't say that.
So you make any estimate as to what portion of this time were you running the affairs of the business, and what portion were you working for the subcommittee?
I don't think the like could make any good estimate.
No, sir.
Is it fair to say, Mr. Carr, that you saw Mr. Shine infrequently?
Yes.
I think you have told us that whatever work Mr. Shine did came to you through Mr. Cohn.
Yes, sir. Now, is that correct?
Yes, sir.
Now, I take it then that if Mr. Shine wrote any reports or memorandum, they would have been handed to Mr. Cohn and Mr. Cohn handed them to you.
Is that correct?
Not necessarily. Mr. Cohn might tell me about them. He might tell you about them.
Well, just so we can get out of it a little quicker, did you ever see any memorandum that Mr. Cohn said had been written by Mr. Shine?
Yes. When did you see the first such memorandum or report?
I'd only call saying any report in the sub-sir, I think that you're using it.
Well, some writing that would have it in some work for the subcommittee in the form of either a report or a memorandum.
I believe I saw a memorandum from Mr. Shine during the period of late July, August, around there.
That was something Mr. Cohn handed you for the files?
No, I don't recall he handed me as I recall.
Still, I told you about it.
As I recall he said, here's a memorandum of Shine and I never saw it and all of a sudden he was saying that.
He said, here's a memorandum of Shine and he told me something about it.
I recall one of those.
Did you ever have a occasion to refer to it again?
No, sir.
So you can tell us nothing about it?
When you first came to the subcommittee, did you with some time learn that Mr. Shine was being considered for a commission in the Army?
Not when I first came with the subcommittee.
Why did you first learn that back?
I think it was sometime after I'd been with the committee a few weeks.
A few weeks?
I think maybe.
I'm not sure.
You'll talk with Mr. Cohn almost daily, I'd take it.
When you first came with the subcommittee.
Yes.
And during that time he never told you about Mr. Shine's possible commission in the Army?
Yes, sir.
So he heard.
He did.
I heard about it.
Yes, but you said it would be several weeks after you came.
I'm trying to find out when you first learned that.
Well, I can't say.
I don't know when I first learned that.
Well, you came to the subcommittee in the middle of July.
That's right.
Would you say you had heard of it before the end of July?
I really couldn't say.
I may have.
I know that he was applying for a reserve commission.
Well, did you not learn that General Reaver is supposed to have promised him such a commission?
How long that's not during that period.
When did you learn that first?
Now sometime later.
Well, that doesn't help me very much, Mr. Cohn.
Give me at least a month if you can.
I'm not sure that I can.
I did learn it sometime later.
Well, it would have been important to you as the staff director to learn what it's not
that one of your, that your principal consultant was about ready to get a commission in the Army, wouldn't it?
Yes, sir.
You were counting on his services and running the affairs of the subcommittee, weren't you?
Yes, sir, but I'm, I'm like, say, that, if I may.
I might state that he was on what information I had, applying for a reserve commission.
At that point, I didn't know what he was going in the Army or not.
Well, it was important for you to know that, wasn't it?
It might be, it's come important for me to know that.
Well, you considered that his function wasn't important for the subcommittee, didn't you?
Yes, I did.
And therefore, you would like to know on what availability this man would have to the committee in the immediate future, wouldn't you?
That's what I think I would.
So you now say you didn't even inquire if you're whether or not you're going to get the commission soon?
No, sir, I didn't inquire about the commission.
You pay no attention to the matter, is that right?
No.
No, sir, I, well, then you must pay with all attention.
I, well, I, well, we must be sure we're talking about the same thing.
Well, let's be sure. I'm talking about the matter of a commission for one G David Chinen.
Right. Now, what are you talking about?
I'm talking about the matter of a reserve commission for one G David Chinen.
All right. It's all an element in mind by putting a reserve to be.
Right.
Since it was a reserve commission, I, and at that time I had no great interest in it.
I didn't know whether he was going in the army or not.
Well, when did you learn that that commission would not be for a committee?
I think the first time I, I learned that it would not be for a committee, was one Secretary Stevens,
talked about it on October 2nd.
All of that late date, that's when you first learned it would not be for a committee.
I think so, it may have been.
And then the matter was still open and active in so far as you, staff director, was concerned until that time.
Well, who would you read that question for a question?
I don't need to mention it.
Then the matter was still open and active in so far as you, staff director, was concerned at that time.
Could you explain the question to patients?
Well, perhaps it's not a very clear question.
I thought you testified that the first you learned that Mr. Shine was not going to get a commission, was as late as October 2nd.
I, I, that's it.
And it may have been.
No, that prior to October 2nd, you must have thought he might still be going to get that commission.
I might have, yes.
Are you not very sure about it, Mr. Tarr?
No, I'm not.
You could be mistaken.
I could be mistaken.
Could you be...
...tamilitary pharmacist in Florida?
It's like on the wall at the indicated speed, you said, well, take out custody of five minutes, seven, and he's checked. It's just time.
There.
Share a few things with him, but about the same.
The audience is here now, as we've heard before, the recess.
It's unnecessary to go through the routine of reminding you against the committee, rule against audible manifestations of approval or disapproval.
Just summarize it by saying, like, Calvin Pooley's relationship to sin were a given.
So I'm sure that you'll comply with that admonition.
We had just concluded one go around, if I'm questioning, and I'll ask, uh, Council Proort, whether he has any other questions at this time.
Mr. Proort has it.
The chair had just a few questions.
Mr. Carr, I was interested in your replies to the questions propounded by Senator Ducks, that you had after graduating from Brown University,
gone to the law school specifically to become a member of the FBI.
I might say one of the good things about these hearings, we're getting better and better with our staff, and we've never had the opportunity to do before I didn't know that.
Let me ask you a question, a two-about-year work with the FBI, which you say, with which you say you were connected for 11 years.
What were you doing in the FBI immediately before you came to the commission, so far, did you do not violate FBI regulations in discussing your duties and functions?
I was a supervisor of the security matter section in the New York Field Division of the FBI engaged in the investigation of communist.
And a supervisor, did you have men under you over whom you were in control?
Yes, sir.
About our large staff, did you have any of that permissible tell?
A very large number, sir.
By that, you would say as large as your staff here, or considered larger, many times larger, many times larger.
In the course of your experience with the FBI, do you take some of the in-training courses if the FBI has for its agents and its operatives?
Yes, sir, that, several.
That's what they call the FBI Academy?
Yes, sir, at the Quantico Virginia.
Once you try doing my 16 years down here has been my high pleasure and happy honor for the invited to 50 commencement of death.
As the FBI Academy, I want to say that I think it is as good a demonstration of governmental intransions as a program as I have seen anywhere.
As part of your instruction there, teaching you to become actress and meticulous and precise and the fact that in your work and in your procedures, yes, sir.
You took that course on one occasion.
Yes, sir, the original training course, and then approximately every year, 18 months, a re-training course here in Washington and in the Quantico Virginia.
The chair is correct, I believe, and his recollection is enough that you came to our committee direct from the FBI Academy.
Can you immediately recreate it in either the environment or the unemployment?
That's correct, sir.
I just want to ask just to relate to this train ride that we've learned so much about.
I'm not sure that we can throw an additional light on that, but at any time, in that three and a half hour train ride, did you endeavor to put pressure on Mr. Adams in any way to induce him to do something favorable to Mr. Shine?
No, sir, not at that time or any other.
No, no, no, no.
Your testimony is a red note time.
Did you ever directly or indirectly contact Secretary Stevens or Mr. Adams, pressuring them to do something towards Shine which they would not have done?
Had they been no such man in this world as Frank Carter?
That's correct, sir.
I think Mr. Adams specified that you had to talk to him about certain difficulties, which had a reason between your shop and his shop and the person he was going to do.
And I suggested to him that perhaps he had testified to us.
It was part of his Adams' podium business.
If he keeps this cooperative program going, if he keeps the train on the track, if he keeps a workable arrangement between the members of his staff and the members of your staff, do you recall that testimony?
Yes, sir, I think I do.
I wondered if it would be a fair statement to say that on occasion and conversing with Adams, you considered it as part of your post-billage and the post-billage interest.
Likewise, we try to keep the members of his shop and the members of your shop working together on this co-op of you fund.
That's right, sir.
You were interested in getting the investigation concluded.
The thing is, the best possible result.
To do that, you're major concern as I think it was to get these minor irritations behind you and out of the way and develop the maintain working relationships between the Army's science and the disinvestigation and the committee.
Yes, sir.
I maintain my relationship with Mr. Adams right up until the time of the original analogy of advance of this.
They tell that paper was the very important thing.
Yes, sir.
Until that time, you continued to each of his own corner.
They do what you could to keep this co-operative program contingent, I did from my corner, so yeah.
They did your building, he did them his part today.
When he was tough for you sometimes, but he was ultimately trying to do with the state who had the same thing that was laid down and followed by and become an open country person.
I think that he was trying to put that on open country Earth, I think.
I think I can prove my question, I'm going to be calling it here, can I?
Mr. Carr, we were the remember on the move up over the second, when I, my time expired before.
I want to read you, including Carr, about it.
Now, cool, I think that you should know that Mr. Stevens was very helpful, and certainly indicated that he had no intention of allowing General Lutton to place his blackout of armed personnel.
We, our possible contact, was this committee?
Is that correct?
Yes, that's what it says.
That indicates to me that up to that time Mr. Stevens was called co-operating beautifully.
Yes, sir, I had no trouble with this.
Well, I'm about co-operating as Fort Marmel.
Yes, sir, he cooperated.
You were combined there, then, was against General Lutton, and then on against Mr. Stevens, was he by force?
No, sir, not specifically.
I would say, had I known these members of the government were going to become historic documents, I might have written them a little more carefully.
This was intended to mean that Mr. Stevens had been helpful in removing what I termed a blackout order, preventing the staff from talking to personnel as Fort Marmel, as exactly, but who's blackout order was?
Well, I don't know who's blackout order was, sir. I know that it was issued through General Lutton.
Well, you referred to it as his blackout order, getting General Lutton, but he was right there.
At that time, I considered it was this blackout order, who do you consider it was?
At this point, I don't know, sir. I don't know who may have issued an order to General Lutton.
Well, you have the information, sir.
I have none.
So, and was this issued to him?
I have none, sir.
Well, at that time, before you knew, I was General Lutton's order, what?
The order was General Lutton.
He went to the secretary and got corrected.
Not correct.
Well, let's go to the next one on page.
Five, I believe, you're right, sir.
About December 9, I don't think you are.
Well, I might ask you about this, and the November 6th, all right?
We've told our court paramedics.
Steven said that if we got out everything, he would ask the resign,
who will hurry that about out everything, as to bringing out everything at the court's,
should I move this?
Monmouth, is that correct?
Well, this is my memorandum. I take this to mean, however.
Well, you were present. You were present.
Yes, yes sir. That's the conference.
How I write and dictate the language. I take this to mean.
I take this to mean that if we brought out everything that Mr. Cohen had related to him in his resume,
concerning court mama.
Were you present at the November 6th, once in your sense?
You hear the resume that was at home gay, as I said.
Then it referred to what Mr. Coleman said as the information they had in court development.
Is that correct?
Yes sir.
What was it in it that made him think he'd lose his job?
Well, I don't know what made him think he'd lose his job as we pointed out to him.
I say we, son of a macaw, pointed out to him that there was nothing there that would make him lose his job,
or that he should consider would make him lose his job.
I am asked and I, if you have developed all that information and evidence that you're hearing.
I'm on charge, I don't know.
Was there developed as the subject of hearings on court mama, all of the information from the outline
that's given the Secretary of State even by Mr. Cohen?
Has it all been made public yet?
Have you developed it in sworn testimony, whatever he related to in that day?
Well, all that Mr., all that Mr. Tone outlined to him that day, I think,
has been, and this is the long time now, I think it has been developed in sworn testimony.
What I was trying to determine is anything else that should be developed in the hasn't been
that Mike Paul's in the losing job.
Otherwise, there's a bit in the withholding or a failure to develop whatever was out there in that day.
No sir, if I follow your question, I don't believe that the Secretary, as the Secretary of the Army,
needed to have this worry about his job.
Maybe he didn't.
What I'm trying to determine is whether it was the basic or whether he had in the basis for it or not,
I'm trying to determine what follows their after.
Have you developed in the investigational court mama, all that was outlined to the Secretary of State,
or is there some more to be developed?
But I might still have some impact upon his retaining his job.
Well, whether it would have an impact on his retaining his job, I don't know what there is.
Late one phase of it that has not been fully developed, which was called a was a test of that day.
And that had more serious than the other that has been developed?
No sir, I wouldn't say it was more serious, although I consider it serious.
There still some work to be done there on the board, monmer garrings.
Yes sir, I would say that there are two phases to an investigation of this type.
The first phase and the very important one is to get rid of the communist or the subversive, the security risks found there to get rid of them.
The second phase is to find out who is responsible for leaving them there.
And in many cases, who is responsible for leaving them there.
And in many cases, who is responsible for leaving them there to develop that, it might get his job.
I don't think so.
I think what he was referring to, I think he thought that if we had public hearings concerning just the amount of information that we did have public hearings on, that's not worried.
Well, what you think he thought at that time has been developed at the moment.
It's pretty hard for me to say what I think he thought.
I'm saying you just say in what you thought he thought.
Yes, I am trying to go along with this line of questioning.
I think that the secretary was disturbed.
That if public hearings develop showed as much as Mr. Cohn outlined to him that day, he was most concerned.
Well, I don't have to discuss that. Have they up to date shown as much as Mr. Cohn outlined to him that day?
I think generally speaking with the exception of the loyalty phase, well, what's that?
Don't you regard that for the series if somebody is responsible and keeping commoners in there subversives and perfect them?
Don't you regard that as a very serious job?
I regard it very serious.
Do you think that's being done now?
I don't think that's being done right now.
I depend on up until an hour and for the next three years.
Well, I think it was being done.
I don't know because you say we didn't get the loyalty phase for people here.
You've got your preliminary investigation evidence.
Yes, what it shows, you know what you think you've approved, no?
I don't know so much about what we can prove from the loyalty phase,
because the preliminary investigation is not developed to the point where I could say something conclusive about it,
would have to have some of these people in to ask something for it.
I'm done by just what Monmouth's not the loyalty phase.
Well, then we're not talking about the same thing. I'm talking about the loyalty phase.
Well, you're not investigating the loyalty phase yet, have you?
Of course, probably.
No, no.
Now I've told you that on a December 9th, apparently judging from the one I've just referred to,
the first one on October 2nd, everything was getting along pretty well at that time.
But a month, three days, months, and seven days later,
it seems that already begun to deteriorate, is that correct?
Judging from this number.
Two months later, I thought they had just two months later.
Two months later, it would work.
Unless you refer to a statement that you just filed on the oath that Mr. Adams made when he asked you,
what's there in it for us?
If he hadn't even given something for shine, just what do you mean to that?
What did you...